In this video we're going to be talking about spring schedular spring schedular is a cool way to schedule
the tasks that you repeated would do.
Show you how it works.
I'm going to create a new spring boot project and show you how.
So let's do that now.
And I'm creating a new project and the artifact is going to be schedular
And of course let's update our description to
and in the next step we actually only need the web dependency that's all.
Let's hit next and let's hit finish
here.
How are project ready so let's go to our main class and in our main class as you can see this is a clean
and simple spring boot project.
To make use of spring schedular the first thing that we should do is we should be enabling the scheduling
property the way to do that is with of course and annotation the annotation for that is enable scheduling
the scheduling feature is built into the spring framework itself.
So you don't have to use any special dependency or any sort of thing like that.
So after you enable the scheduling you can provide a method anywhere in your application and annotated
with scheduled annotation and how it's run by some timing rules.
So let's make an example and see how it works.
I'm coming down right here and I'm going to say I'll have a simple method which is not going to return
anything.
And it's just going to take some action.
And what I want this take action method is to logout some statement to me.
So for debt I'm going to create a logo right here.
And it's also coming from the s.l for the local factory.
And here we have it.
And in the Take Action method what I'm going to do is I'm going to logout running the
schedule task.
All right.
The way that we run this method with a specific interval and time delay all we have to do is provide
the schedule annotation.
Now let's do it now.
We're going to say scheduled.
And you can either provide an initial delay and as you can see with other properties you have the option
to run a Krown job.
You can provide a fixed delay fixed rate and initial outlay.
These are cool options that you can take advantage of.
But in our example I'm going to use an initial delay as 3 seconds which is in milliseconds.
And the fixed delay is going to be like two seconds.
So in my case the method that I want to be around is going to be running up to 3 seconds and after each
two seconds it's going to print out the same result again and again sort of see it in action.
Let's run our project and see what's going on.
Our application is starting up
and it's done.
And as you can see in the console after three seconds and you can compare the seconds right here our
scheduler is running with the test that we were given at schedular is a cool way to manage some background
task within your application.
But the only downside of schedular as you cannot persist data with schedular.
So you should be careful about that and make sure that you can find a way to use scheduler in your next
application.